chore(docs): add docs for the erc20 paymaster capability (#1952)
alchemyplatform/aa-sdk: docs/pages/transactions/pay-gas-with-any-token/index.mdx

---
title: Pay Gas With Any Token
description: Enable your users to pay gas with ERC-20 tokens like USDC via Gas Manager
slug: wallets/transactions/sponsor-gas/pay-gas-with-any-token/overview
---

Gas fees paid in the native gas token can feel foreign to users that primarily hold stablecoins or your app's own token. With our smart wallet, you can enable your users to pay for gas with ERC-20 tokens beyond the native gas token, like USDC or your own custom tokens, streamlining the user experience.

<Tip>
  *How it works:* To enable this capability you will need to create a Gas
  Manager policy. When a user pays for gas with an ERC-20 token, we front the
  gas using the network's native gas token and transfer the ERC-20 tokens from
  the user's wallet to a wallet you control. The equivalent USD amount and the
  admin fee is then added to your monthly invoice.
</Tip>

## Prerequisites

> - Smart Wallets already installed and configured in your project.

Author: Should we move that page from out under the react heading?

  alt="viewing your ERC-20 sponsorship policy"
/>

### ERC-20 Gas Manager Modes

Post-Operation mode is recommended in most cases. It:

- Is the most gas efficient as it only requires a single transfer.
- Works with all ERC-20 tokens.
- Only ever requires a single signature from the user.

However, because tokens are deducted after execution, it is possible that you (the sponsoring developer) may be required to pay for gas without receiving sufficient ERC-20 payment.
You must ensure that the user will have enough token left over to pay for gas after the operation, else it won't receive payment from the user for gas and the operation will revert.
If the operation preformed will result in a static amount of the user’s ERC-20 token balance after execution and you can account for this before submitting the operation, use PostOp mode.

Examples of static amounts:

- Payments, purchases, and deposits
- Operations unrelated to the ERC-20 token

Examples of dynamic amounts:

- Swaps of the ERC-20 payment token

If you are sponsoring operations that result in dynamic amounts of the ERC-20 token left over, you should consider using PreOp mode.

## Use With Wallet APIs

> To pay gas with any token using Wallet APIs, use the `paymasterService` capability's `erc20` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To pay gas with any token using Wallet APIs, use the `erc20` field on the `paymasterService` capability.
```

There, you can configure the token to be used for the particular request and control auto-injecting approvals when needed.

> For a full list of settings for the `paymasterService` capability in the [`wallet_prepareCalls` API reference](/docs/wallets/api/smart-wallets/wallet-api-endpoints/wallet-api-endpoints/wallet-prepare-calls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full list of settings on the `paymasterService` capability see the [`wallet_prepareCalls` API reference](/docs/wallets/api/smart-wallets/wallet-api-endpoints/wallet-api-endpoints/wallet-prepare-calls).
```
